# Basics:

## 25-class component

- good react developer knows when will component render and re-render
- state is assigned by reference, if the ref doesn’t change, re-render will not being triggered.
- if react sees that the state is assign to another object, it will trigger re-render.

- shallow merge, setState,
- what’s shallow merge? change a value of the object, without changing another key-value pairs, the other pairs will stay.

- setState actually can has 2 params, like:

```
this.setState((state, props)=> {
	return {
		name: ’marina’,
		age: 39,
	}
  },
  () => {console.log(this.state)}
)
```

- the second params is a callback function and will be triggered AFTER state has been set. (if you need a callback for the second param, then use function as the first param)

### life cycle of class component

- first, run constructor, tell react that we have an object state, and what the initial state should look like
- second, render the ui template with initial state, which is empty array
- do fetch when component did mount.
- as long as react finds that there is a new state object, then do render again, with new state.

### mount -> when component is put on the DOM first time.

### difference between writing function in onChange as a anonymous function and out side of render()

- the one that writing in onChange will be created every time the ui is getting rendered, so the better way is writing it out side of render().

### when will a component re-render?

- setState
- props change
- so if your ui doesn’t update, think if you have trigger these two factors.

### why should we use component -> re-use

### functional component and Class life cycle 52.

- mounting
- updating
- unmounting
- functional component doesn’t have life cycle but also goes through the 3 phases.

### pure and inpure function

- pure function:
- every time the same input gets the same output
- no side effect

### re-render of functional component

- unlike class component only renders the render part, functional component run the whole function.
- when props change, or call useState, the whole function runs again.
- useState gets call && state changes -> re-render

### infinity re-render

- put fetch function directly in functional component (which will call useState) will trigger infinity re-render
- do wrap it in useEffect

### strict mode can render twice

- download react dev tool to “grey” the render comes from strict mode
