# what for? - performance improve. 

## a whole picture - some factors involing performance:
- how is the network working? 
→ browser sends requests, server responds files

- there are three parts involving:
→ front-end browser: receives files and renders
→ network: transfer files, lentancy
→ back-end server:  processing, load data

## when do i need to improve performance

- need to be a big ticket item
- focus on what let your website slow, don't do it w/o knowing an actual number.

# focus on front-end part - how browser works after requesting?
## `critical render path`

> request → send `html` file → browser reads html 
→ reaches `<style>` tag and requests `css` file → receives css file
→ create `DOM` and also `cssom`  = `(css object model)` , css tree model
→ reaches `<script>` tag and requests JS file → receives it
→ browser combines `DOM` and `cssom` to a `render tree`, also edit dom based on JS file
→ figures out the `layout` , the skeleton of this page
→ starts to `paint` pixels → displaying web page
→ meanwhile downloads `<jpg>`
> 

## 2 bottlenecks

1. loading JS files - here comes WEBPACK!!

> bundle files with tools: parcels (zero configuration), webpack, rollup.js
> 

> webpack → big project, CRA has it pre-built
Parcels → small project running by yourself
rollup.js → an npm package
> 
2. when modifying page, re-render(re-paint) it.

> solution: react, redux
> 

## need to know first about webpack

- the most important part of bundling is the configuration
- and it changes from time to time
- when a new version of webpack is released, the configuration needs to be changed, so don’t spend a lot of time on it. Just take the part you need.

