# 實際操作 webpack

> Main parts: entry, output, module(rules of loaders), pluggins

> tips: 有時改動後覺得怎麼沒變，重整或重新起一次，就好了。

**current version**

```json
  "devDependencies": {
    "webpack": "^5.75.0",
    "webpack-cli": "^5.0.1",
    "webpack-dev-server": "^4.11.1"
  }
```

## install locally

- 查過，不要 global 的安裝，而是依照各專案的需求去安裝比較好。
- 起一個 folder，`npm init -y`
- `npm install -D webpack` (`--save-dev`)

### error: zsh command not found

- use these commands
- see here: [https://segmentfault.com/a/1190000023412433]

```shell
$ echo 'export PATH="./node_modules/.bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc
$ source ~/.zshrc
```

## 檔案配置: src/index.js

1. create `src` folder and add `index.js` inside.\
   **如果直接把 index.js 放根目錄，因為 src 是預設路徑，使用 webpack 時會出現 src 字樣的 error**
2. create a `index.html` file and import `index.js` with `<script>`
3. open the index.html in browser, now the console inside of js file will show.\
   **note that the url is the path of html file**

## webpack script in `package.json`

- add scripts:

```json
"build" : "webpack",
"dev" : "webpack serve"
```

- run `npm run dev`, terminal will ask you to install `webpack-cli` and `webpack-dev-server`, install them.

## webpack.config.js

- entry file by default is './src/index.js'

```json
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  mode: 'development',
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
  },
  devServer: {
    static: {
      directory: path.join(__dirname, '/'),
    },
  },
};
```

## devServer 需要先設定，才能 serve

```
cannot get /
```

- I kept getting this message on the screen without any error in serving terminal
- add devServer setting solves this.

```
  devServer: {
    static: {
      directory: path.join(__dirname, '/'),
    },
  },
```

## serve 的觀念，index.html 或 folder

- serve by running `npm run dev`
- now the url is localhost:8080 instead of file path.
  **a more secure way to serve your files**
- now run `npm run build`, it generates a `dist` folder automatically and a `main.js` inside, the js file is built by webpack using our `index.js`
- now move `index.html` to `dist` folder, and change the import path from `index.html` to `main.js`
- serve again, now we can see the folders showing on the screen.
  **serve a folder with `index.html` inside, will serve that html directly, if there is no html file, then it will serve a list of folders and files**
- click `dist` folder then we can see `index.html`, and URL shows localhost:8080/dist

## devServer, changing serve root by config

- change directory from '/' to 'dist', then the `index.html` in `dist` will be served without showing /dist in the URL.

```
  devServer: {
    static: {
      directory: path.join(__dirname, 'dist'),
    },
  },
```

### `mode` - development, production

- production 模式會 minify，讓空格變少。
